LNURL Flows explanations (#35)
peakshift/bitcoin-ux: lnurl/explainer.md

# LNURL

> LNURL is a standard for streamlining the process of enabling a user to conduct certain Lightning Network based operations with a service or full node server on the network. It is particularly useful because it automates some otherwise manual steps when executing these operations between two or more parties. This allows providers that make use of Lightning Network functionality to deploy automated versions of their offerings that can interact autonomously with users by implementing one or more of the various flows.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
LNURL is a standard for streamlining the process of enabling a client/consumer to conduct certain Lightning based operations with a web service that is connected to the Lightning Network. The client can be a wallet application, or even another web service. LNURL Flows automate some otherwise manual steps when executing these operations between the two parties. This allows web service providers that make use of Lightning Network functionality to deploy API endpoints that can be interacted autonomously with by the clients which implementing one or more of the various flows.
```

Author: Yea I think we should clean this up too. I saw in the LNURL docs they use `LN SERVICE` and `LN WALLET`. I generally like this for the current state of things, and the only place I can see this potentially breaking down is if LNURL eventually supports wallet-to-wallet interactions.

To kick things off I can cleanup all the different references to the various actors as one of just these two options and then we can decide if these are the right nouns or if we'd like anything else. What do you think?

> # LNURL

Reviewer: wanted to preview on the bolt.fun site but the yaml is missing so its not rendering.

Author: Yea I was doing the content only in this higher dir first and then after planned to move it into bolt.fun dir with proper formatting and everythin

> LNURL is a standard for streamlining the process of enabling a client/consumer to conduct certain Lightning Network based operations with a web service that is connected to the Lightning Network. The client can be a wallet application, or even another web service. LNURL Flows automate some otherwise manual steps when executing these operations between two or more parties. This allows web service providers that make use of Lightning Network functionality to deploy API endpoints that can be interacted with autonomously by users implementing one or more of the various flows.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
LNURL allows web service providers to use Lightning Network functionality in their API endpoints that clients who have implemented one or more of the various flows can interact with autonomously. The client can be a wallet application or even another web service.

Several Flows are currently part of the LNURL specifications. They are; Pay, Withdraw, Channel, and Auth. These Flows automate some otherwise manual steps for certain Lightning Network-based operations and standardize the HTTP request and responses.
```

> 

Reviewer: We should highlight the benefits to the different parties.

```suggestion
### Service Provider
As a service provider, ... interoperability important and end-users using different clients...

### Client
As a client integrating LNURL ... streamline the user experience... since ... happens in the background ....

```

Author: > We should highlight the benefits to the different parties.

Not sure what these would be past the UX stuff already outlined in the doc. Interoperability with different clients already comes with LN being a protocol (for service providers), and the UX stuff is explained in the different sections (for clients).

What sorts of things you thinking?

Reviewer: You know how when we came across the project it was difficult to grok how it can be used, who should be the different parties that can benefit from it. So the idea was just to give a one-liner for the benefits each of the actors can expect.

How do you convince a service provider, or a client to implement lnurl? If this is going to be blocking though I'd be happy to follow up in another PR. Eager to get more pages on the bolt.fun site. It brings me a special kind of joy when we publish there I'm not going to lie.

> #### Bech32

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Bech32 Encoded URLs / URLs that look like Lightning invoices
```

Attempt to make headings more useful when scanning

LNURL endpoints are encoded as bech32-encoded HTTPS/Onion query strings. This is to allow existing Lightning Network implementations to easily work with these strings either via QR codes or as LN-invoice-like bech32 strings. Encoding endpoints like this allows for easy integration into existing LN services/apps since most of these would already have functionality built in to receive/send and encode/decode bech32 values.

e.g.: the endpoint:
```
https://service.com/api?q=3fc3645b439ce8e7f2553a69e5267081d96dcd340693afabe04be7b0ccd178df
```
would be encoded to:
```
LNURL1DP68GURN8GHJ7UM9WFMXJCM99E3K7MF0V9CXJ0M385EKVCENXC6R2C35XVUKXEFCV5MKVV34X5EKZD3EV56NYD3HXQURZEPEXEJXXEPNXSCRVWFNV9NXZCN9XQ6XYEFHVGCXXCMYXYMNSERXFQ5FNS
```

> When an LNURL-enabled app receives an LNURL-specific bech32 string, it would decode the string and then send the appropriate requests to the decoded endpoint to start the relevant LNURL flow.

Author: I was thinking to keep this as a clean explainer-only doc for the flows and the "why" of LNURL. I'm thinking we could do other sections separately for code/implementation related things:
- encoding libraries
- server implementations
- wallets that already support, and to what extent

> When an LNURL-enabled app receives an LNURL-specific bech32 string, it would decode the string and then send the appropriate requests to the decoded endpoint to start the relevant LNURL flow.

Reviewer: I just opened a PR on the awesome-lnurl repo to separate the resources into auth, encoding/decoding, and server lists. lets see if it gets merged.

> When an LNURL-enabled app receives an LNURL-specific bech32 string, it would decode the string and then send the appropriate requests to the decoded endpoint to start the relevant LNURL flow.

Reviewer: I guess a middle ground is just having a line linking to another page with the encoding libraries listed.
